<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 131: The Pequod Meets The Delight</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-131" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">CXXXI</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod</i> Meets The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Delight</i></span>
			</h2>
			<p>The intense <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod</i> sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably misnamed the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Delight</i>, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.</p>
			<p>Upon the stranger’s shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled, half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.</p>
			<p>“Hast seen the White Whale?”</p>
			<p>“Look!” replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.</p>
			<p>“Hast killed him?”</p>
			<p>“The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,” answered the other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.</p>
			<p>“Not forged!” and snatching Perth’s levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab held it out, exclaiming⁠—“Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin, where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!”</p>
			<p>“Then God keep thee, old man⁠—see’st thou that”⁠—pointing to the hammock⁠—“I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only <em>that</em> one I bury; the rest were buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb.” Then turning to his crew⁠—“Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then⁠—Oh! God”⁠—advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands⁠—“may the resurrection and the life⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“Brace forward! Up helm!” cried Ahab like lightning to his men.</p>
			<p>But the suddenly started <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod</i> was not quick enough to escape the sound of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with their ghostly baptism.</p>
			<p>As Ahab now glided from the dejected <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Delight</i>, the strange life-buoy hanging at the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod’s</i> stern came into conspicuous relief.</p>
			<p>“Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!” cried a foreboding voice in her wake. “In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
