<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX: First Night-Watch</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">First Night-Watch</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p class="location" epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Foretop.</p>
			<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stubb solus, and mending a brace.</p>
			<p>Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!⁠—I’ve been thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha’s the final consequence. Why so? Because a laugh’s the wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come what will, one comfort’s always left⁠—that unfailing comfort is, it’s all predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift, might readily have prophesied it⁠—for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, <em>wise</em> Stubb⁠—that’s my title⁠—well, Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may be coming, but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra, skirra! What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes out?⁠—Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate’s pennant, and so am I⁠—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh⁠—</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>We’ll drink tonight with hearts as light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To love, as gay and fleeting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As bubbles that swim, on the beaker’s brim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And break on the lips while meeting.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>A brave stave that⁠—who calls? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> he’s my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.⁠—Aye, aye, sir, just through with this job⁠—coming.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
