<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CXXIII: The Musket</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-123" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Musket</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod</i>‚Äôs jawbone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached to it‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor they were slack‚ÅÝ‚Äîbecause some play to the tiller was indispensable.</p>
			<p>In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pequod</i>‚Äôs; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.</p>
			<p>Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb‚ÅÝ‚Äîone engaged forward and the other aft‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.</p>
			<p>The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precision again; and the course‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor the present, East-south-east‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhich he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo! a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze became fair!</p>
			<p>Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of ‚Äú<em>Ho! the fair wind! oh-ye-ho, cheerly men!</em>‚Äù the crew singing for joy, that so promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding it.</p>
			<p>In compliance with the standing order of his commander‚ÅÝ‚Äîto report immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in the affairs of the deck‚ÅÝ‚ÄîStarbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the breeze‚ÅÝ‚Äîhowever reluctantly and gloomily‚ÅÝ‚Äîthan he mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.</p>
			<p>Ere knocking at his stateroom, he involuntarily paused before it a moment. The cabin lamp‚ÅÝ‚Äîtaking long swings this way and that‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man‚Äôs bolted door‚ÅÝ‚Äîa thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels. The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest, upright man; but out of Starbuck‚Äôs heart, at that instant when he saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for itself.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe would have shot me once,‚Äù he murmured, ‚Äúyes, there‚Äôs the very musket that he pointed at me;‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat one with the studded stock; let me touch it‚ÅÝ‚Äîlift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and powder in the pan;‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs not good. Best spill it?‚ÅÝ‚Äîwait. I‚Äôll cure myself of this. I‚Äôll hold the musket boldly while I think.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI come to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and doom‚ÅÝ‚Äî<em>that‚Äôs</em> fair for Moby Dick. It‚Äôs a fair wind that‚Äôs only fair for that accursed fish.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîThe very tube he pointed at me!‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe very one; <em>this</em> one‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship‚Äôs company down to doom with him?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîYes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this instant‚ÅÝ‚Äîput aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just there‚ÅÝ‚Äîin there, he‚Äôs sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again. I can‚Äôt withstand thee, then, old man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest. Aye, and say‚Äôst the men have vow‚Äôd thy vow; say‚Äôst all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBut is there no other way? no lawful way?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMake him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man‚Äôs living power from his own living hands? Only a fool would try it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me and law.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAye, aye, ‚Äôtis so.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîIs heaven a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin together?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAnd would I be a murderer, then, if‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîand slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket‚Äôs end against the door.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOn this level, Ahab‚Äôs hammock swings within; his head this way. A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîOh Mary! Mary!‚ÅÝ‚Äîboy! boy! boy!‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBut if I wake thee not to death, old man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck‚Äôs body this day week may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall I?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîThe wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed and set; she heads her course.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúStern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man‚Äôs tormented sleep, as if Starbuck‚Äôs voice had caused the long dumb dream to speak.</p>
			<p>The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard‚Äôs arm against the panel; Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs too sound asleep, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝStubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know‚Äôst what to say.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
